index.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
#title: "Introduction to Open Data Science with R"
authors: Marc Galland, Tijs Bliek, Zsofia Koma from materials taken from "The Ocean Health Index Team"
root: .  # Is the only page that doesn't follow the pattern /:path/index.html
permalink: index.html  # Is the only page that doesn't follow the pattern /:path/index.html
---
# Welcome 

This lesson will introduce you to open data science so you can work with data in an open, reproducible, and collaborative way. Open data science means that methods, data, and code are available so that others can access, reuse, and build from it without much fuss. Here you will learn a workflow with R, RStudio, Git, and GitHub, as we describe in [Lowndes *et al. 2017, Nature Ecology & Evolution*: Our path to better science in less time using open data science tools](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41559-017-0160).

This is going to be fun, because learning these open data science tools and practices is empowering! This training book is written (and always improving) so you can use it as self-paced learning, or it can be used to teach an in-person workshop where the instructor live-codes. Either way, you should do everything hands-on on your own computer as you learn. 

Before you begin, be sure you are all set up: see the prerequisites in Chapter \@ref(overview). 

> ## Before you start
>
> Before the training, please make sure you have done the following: 
>
> 1. Download and install **up-to-date versions** of:
>    - R: [https://cloud.r-project.org](https://cloud.r-project.org)
>    - RStudio: [http://www.rstudio.com/download](http://www.rstudio.com/download) 
>    - Git: [https://git-scm.com/downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads) 
> 2. Create a GitHub account: [https://github.com](https://github.com) *Note! Shorter names that kind of identify you are better, and use your work email!*
> 3. Read the workshop [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html) to make sure this workshop stays welcoming for everybody.
> 4. Get comfortable: if you're not in a physical workshop, be set up with two screens if possible. You will be following along in RStudio on your own computer while also following this tutorial on your own.
> More instructions are available on the workshop website in the **Setup** section.
{: .prereq}


{% include links.md %}


----

Commit message:

add link to Ocean Health Index Open Science online book

index.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
#title: "Introduction to Open Data Science with R"
authors: Marc Galland, Tijs Bliek, Zsofia Koma from materials taken from "The Ocean Health Index Team"
root: .  # Is the only page that doesn't follow the pattern /:path/index.html
permalink: index.html  # Is the only page that doesn't follow the pattern /:path/index.html
---
# Welcome 

This lesson will introduce you to open data science so you can work with data in an open, reproducible, and collaborative way. Open data science means that methods, data, and code are available so that others can access, reuse, and build from it without much fuss. Here you will learn a workflow with R, RStudio, Git, and GitHub, as we describe in [Lowndes *et al. 2017, Nature Ecology & Evolution*: Our path to better science in less time using open data science tools](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41559-017-0160). These lesson episodes are heavily inspired from the Ocean Health Index book [Introduction to Open Data Science](https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/open-science-with-r/). 

This is going to be fun, because learning these open data science tools and practices is empowering! This training book is written (and always improving) so you can use it as self-paced learning, or it can be used to teach an in-person workshop where the instructor live-codes. Either way, you should do everything hands-on on your own computer as you learn. 

Before you begin, be sure you are all set up: see the prerequisites in Chapter \@ref(overview). 

> ## Before you start
>
> Before the training, please make sure you have done the following: 
>
> 1. Download and install **up-to-date versions** of:
>    - R: [https://cloud.r-project.org](https://cloud.r-project.org)
>    - RStudio: [http://www.rstudio.com/download](http://www.rstudio.com/download) 
>    - Git: [https://git-scm.com/downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads) 
> 2. Create a GitHub account: [https://github.com](https://github.com) *Note! Shorter names that kind of identify you are better, and use your work email!*
> 3. Read the workshop [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html) to make sure this workshop stays welcoming for everybody.
> 4. Get comfortable: if you're not in a physical workshop, be set up with two screens if possible. You will be following along in RStudio on your own computer while also following this tutorial on your own.
> More instructions are available on the workshop website in the **Setup** section.
{: .prereq}


{% include links.md %}


----
